In this lesson, we've investigated two new types of layers for neural networks.
We began with convolutional layers which detect
regional patterns in an image using a series of image filters.
We've seen how typically a ReLu activation function is
applied to the output of these filters to standardize their output values.
Then, you learned about max pooling layers,
which appear after convolutional layers to reduce the dimensionality of our input arrays.
These new layers, along with fully-connected layers,
that should be familiar,
are often the only layers that you'll find in a CNN.
In this video, we'll discuss how to arrange
these layers to design a complete CNN architecture.
We'll focus again on CNNs for image classification.
In this case, our CNN must accept an image array as input.
Now, if we're going to work with messy real-world images,
there's a complication that we haven't yet discussed.
If I go online and collect thousands or millions of images,
well, it's pretty much guaranteed that they'll all be different sizes.
Similar to MLPs, the CNNs we'll discuss will require a fixed size input.
So, we'll have to pick an image size and resize all of
our images to that same size before doing anything else.
This is considered to be another pre-processing step,
alongside normalization and conversion to a tensor datatype.
It's very common to resize each image to be a square,
with the spatial dimensions equal to a power of two,
or else a number that's divisible by a large power of two.
In the next few videos,
we'll work with a dataset composed of images that have all
been resized to 32 by 32 pixels.
Recall that any image is interpreted by the computer as a three-dimensional array.
Color images had some height and width in pixels along with red,
green, and blue color channels corresponding to a depth of three.
Grayscale images, while technically two-dimensional,
can also be thought of as having their own width and height and a depth of one.
For both of these cases,
with color or grayscale images,
the input array will always be much taller and wider than it is deep.
Our CNN architecture will be designed with the goal of taking
that array and gradually making it much deeper than it is tall or wide.
Convolutional layers will be used to make
the array deeper as it passes through the network,
and max pooling layers will be used to decrease the XY dimensions.
As the network gets deeper,
it's actually extracting more and more complex patterns and
features that help identify the content and the objects in an image,
and it's actually discarding some spatial information about features
like a smooth background and so on that do not help identify the image.
To see how this works, next,
let's go over a complete image classification CNN in detail.